### NBA Game Outcome and Point Spread Prediction

This project uses machine learning to predict the outcomes and point spreads of NBA basketball games based on historical game logs and team statistics. It leverages **Logistic Regression** for predicting game winners and **Random Forest Regression** for predicting point spreads.
NBA Data (game logs and season avergages) has already been webscraped and stored in the Data folder.

## Running the Project

To run this project, you'll need Python installed on your system.

### Prerequisites:

1. **Python:** Ensure Python 3.x is installed. [Download it here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
2. **pip:** Ensure `pip` (Python's package installer) is available.

### Installing Required Libraries:

This project requires the following Python libraries: scikit-learn, pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn, and flask. You can install them all at once with:

```bash
pip install scikit-learn pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn flask
````

If any further errors happened to be displayed, follow directions on the terminal as needed.

### Running the Prediction Script:

To utilize the prediction models, run the `logRegANDrandForest.py` script. 

1. **Navigate to the project directory** in your terminal:

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project-directory
   ```

2. **Run the script:**

   ```bash
   python logRegANDrandForest.py
   ```

   This will train both the logistic regression and random forest models. Follow terminal directions to test your inputted matchups.

---

### Running the Web Application:

To interact with the models via a web interface:

1. **Ensure the `.pkl` model files** are generated by running either `logRegANDrandForest.py` or `gen_models.py`

2. **Run the Flask app** by executing the `app.py` script:

   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

3. **Access the web application** in your browser by visiting `http://localhost:5000`.

   (You can also open the to_run_site.txt for these instructions)
---

### Visit Our Website:

You can find more information about our project on our [website](https://sites.google.com/vt.edu/predictivemodelingofnbamatchup/home?authuser=1&read_current=1)
